# Automatic Patch Notes Architect

## TL:DR: Automatically takes rough bulletpoints and organizes them into legible and neat patchnotes.

Bitbucket URL: https://bitbucket.org/danish_singh_cs322/mvp

Canvas Video Link: [Will go here]

Author: Danish Singh

Contact: danishs@uoregon.edu

Course: CS 322

## Project Description:

#### **NOTE: This project was made on windows, and may not function correctly on other operating systems, please contact for a demo if needed.**

This project is designed to take a rough draft of user bullet-points and with a few keywords (Fixed, Added, Updated), architect them into a neat, organized set of patch notes, intended to be used for other bitbucket/github projects to make a accessible way to write and publish patch notes to be viewed online.

The tech stack for this project includes Docker to deploy and build the app, Flask (version 2.3.3) as the backend, Javascript and AJAX as the frontend, MongoDB (version 4.4) to power the database that stores the patch notes, A RestAPI to fetch the data from the database, and lastly a UX powered by a php-apache 8.2 server for a user to easily navigate and use the application.

---

## Running the Application:

To run the application follow these steps:

>  Navigate to the project directory and run in terminal:
>
> **docker compose up -d** 
>
> Upon execution, 3 images will be built, and subsequently 3 containers will be ran in parallel, one for the PHP server which hosts the web-app (ran on port 8080), one for the MongoDB database (ran on port 27017) and one for the backend of the application (ran on port 5000).
>
> The web application is hosted on port 8080, to reach access this, type in browser search-bar of choice:
>
> **http://localhost:8080/**
>
> To view the consumer side of the application you can hit the link on the header of the web-application or type in the search-bar:
>
> **http://localhost:8080/changelog.html**
> 
> (The MongoDB Container is hosted on its own port 27017 and the RestApi is hosted on port 5000, but is only used to display JSON objects)

To stop the application follow these steps:

> Run in terminal (make sure you are in the project directory):
>
> **docker-compose down**
>
> The application and containers have now stopped running, you can now safely delete the images from docker.

## Entering the Database Through Command Line

To enter the database from the terminal follow these steps:

> Make sure you are in the "mvp" directory, if not, navigate to the location of the project directory and type in terminal:
>
> **cd mvp**
>
> Execute in terminal:
> 
> **docker compose exec db mongosh**
>
> **use release_architect_db**
>
> You are now in the database!
>
> To see all entries in the database through the terminal execute:
>
> **db.releases.find().pretty()**
>
> To delete all entries you can execute in the terminal:
>
> **db.releases.drop()**
>
> To exit the database, simply type in terminal:
>
> **exit**

---

## Running Tests

**This Assumes the Application is Running**

> To run the tests regarding the web-app, ensure you are in the root "mvp" directory and execute:
>
> **docker compose exec backend python test_app.py**

---

The list of dependencies is as follows:

> Docker
>
> Git Bash [Windows Only]
>
> Python version 3.9 [Or higher]

Libraries (detailed from requirements.txt):

- Flask (v2.2.3)

- pymongo (v.4.5.0)

- flask-cors (v.4.0.0)

- requests (v2.31.0)

Set-up Instructions:

> Place directory containing the app in a directory of choice
>
> Follow instructions on how to run the app

--- 

# Questions Regarding My MVP

**What is cool about your project?**

> I find the fact that using a few keywords (i.e., updated, fixed, added) and placing a few rough points, it comes out with a really nice looking readable set of patch notes for a project. Nowdays, it seems like patch notes are seen as afterthoughts, and this is where this project comes in to solve this.

**What AI tool(s) did you use, and for what specific tasks**

> I used Google Gemini Flash 3.5 for some code generation, debugging, and project-structure
>
> The testing script, html files, and css file are all generated by ai with the prompts for these generated files being:
>
> "Can you provide a index.html page for my web-application" alongside a import of the code folder. This gave the output of index.html and style.css file
>
> "Can you provide a consumer dashboard page for my web-application" alongside a import of the code folder. This gave the output of the changelog.html file
>
> "Can you provide a testing script for the application" alongside a import of the code folder. This gave the output of test_app.py
>
> "I am making an MVP with flask as the backend, Can you help me implement a note parser function for use in an automatic patchnote organizer? It will need a way to seperate bug fixes, general updates, and additions" This gave the output of the ai_assisted_note_parser function in app.py
>
> No specific prompts were used, but ai was used to help with reading and writting into the database through some of the functions in the front and backend.

**What did you learn by applying the code / building the project?**

> I learned that AI can greatly help in some of the more mundane tasks, if I were to have more time, I would have loved to make a unique CSS layout, but instead I delegated the html and css fully to AI as to save some time for some of the more taxing tasks. It was also useful having test cases made instantly with AI but I have a feeling it might not be very reliable because the AI could cherry-pick situations to make sure the test script would pass so I am skeptical.
>
> I also was able to get more hands on experience with using a RestAPI, implementing various GET, PUT, POST, and DELETE methods. Alongside this I was also able to mess around with a database powered by MongoDB a lot more, making my own template to store data as a BSON and then convert it to display as a JSON object.

**What were the main technical challenges? How did you solve them?**

> One thing that I have always struggled with in all programming languages is reading and writing data (specifically when it comes to files) and this project was no exception, with the creation of a new release note (POST), Changing draft status (PUT), and deleting a release note (DELETE) being harder for me to implement. I solved this by using AI to help me debug these methods and help me understand where I went wrong and the explanation of how the new code it implemented worked.

---

Maintainer: Danish Singh

Contact: danishs@uoregon.edu